---
title: 57North AGM 2019
author: Andy
date: 16 Apr 2019
geometry: margin=1in
papersize: a4
toc: true
---

# Agenda for the meeting:

* Election of meeting chair
* Previous AGM minutes[0]
* Report on activities since last AGM
* Treasurer's report
* AOCB
* Election of directors

Agenda from http://lists.57north.co/pipermail/57north-announce/2019-March/000424.html


# Attending

* Ed W
* Steph D
* Kevin M
* Tom J
* Peter D
* Utkarsh K
* Robert M
* David H
* Mike O
* Tony T
* Iain R. L
* Ana (guest of member Iain R.L.)


# Election of meeting chair

* **Chair**: Ed
* **Minutes**: Andy
* **Start**: 19.46 16-04-2019


# Previous AGM minutes
See https://github.com/hackerdeen/meetings/blob/master/2018/18-04-24.AGM.minutes.md


# Report on activities since last AGM
* See https://github.com/hackerdeen/meetings/blob/master/2019/19-04-16-directors-report.md

0) State of the Membership
- We currently have 22 members on our register
- We have an average paying member count of 13 (last 3-month avg)
- 7 members can be classified as both non-paying and absent, so are
therefore due for dismemberment
- The board acknowledges a number of house-keeping actions have fallen due
(such as dismemberment) and resolve to move on these tasks once a full board
has been chosen.

1) We moved to the Engage space
- We shuttered for a month to help with timings and reduce rent.
- We spent money on a first and second fit (£193 and £245 accordingly)
- Big thanks to those who donated, built and generally helped with the move

2) We started doing our own books
- This have saved us the cost of an accountant and so far has been uncomplicated

3) Some members went to EMF camp
- It was fun, there was a scottish barrier-crossing.

4) Some members went to CampGND

5) Hosted Scottish Consulate Winter Hackerparty
- It was fun, upstairs was used a lot.
- Attendees from all round Europe

6) Some members went CCC over new years

7) We have received a laser cutter on long-term loan from a friend of the space
- We have been granted use for as long we find it useful.
- It is a work in progress

8) Applied for local council funding
- Didn’t get anything granted, but it was a first step

9) Congratulations to Kev on growing the air quality monitoring project
- This has been a great example of working with other members of the community
- Hope to see more involvement from them, and more space projects that engage others

10) Branding and signage upgrades
- We have had some signage added to the outside walls of the new address and wall
artwork has been added
- We have also updated our wiki to 57N branding and created space posters to help get


# Treasurer's report
* Available at https://github.com/hackerdeen/meetings/blob/master/2019/57N%20Treasurers%20Report%2015-04-2019.pdf


## Notes and comments
* Consensus is we're in a bit better of a place than before
* We have ~£492 float
* Discussions on financial security
* Discussions on increase on fees
* Last year we spent £400 on fit, which is fairly one-off


# Change of article 103
A vote was cast, All agreed therefore resolution was past.


# AOCB

## Distant member idea
raised by hibbie. Discussion of this.
Comments re this...
* some access to the space
* no voting rights
* would need a general meeting to set in place
* can't make this change today as it requires a separate meeting

## Fees
Andy: Could it increase in line with base rate APR, roughly, periodically. Would need a general meeting to set in place.

## Guest admission
* Ed: we could do with a process and record the data
* Action: Ed to advise on required process

## Wizard sticks
Hibby made one


# Election of directors

All directors stand down, as per previous precedent

5 candidates nominates themselves to be directors
* Ed - tresurering director
* Andy
* Hibby
* Kev
* Tom - new candidate

Directors confirmed

Note: Iain withdrew his nomination for himself, that he'd raised via email to the list


## Mandatory Bikeshedding
* Rob says whiteboard should be blue, like a fridge
* Hibby says mauve
* Steph want it's like laptop cover, nice black & purple sheen colour

Meeting concluded at 20:36
